CentOS/Instructions.md, before:

# CCDC CentOS Hardening Instructions
This folder was created by Tyler Deal with the intention of passing on to future UWW Cyber/ISACA students, to help with preperation and competition.
If install is needed: https://ultahost.com/knowledge-base/install-prestashop-on-ubuntu/
Assume everything is compromised. Secure passwords, firewalls, and account/permission audits will be crucial. 

## What to do on competetion day?
Login

Git clone the repo.

run CentPasswd.sh, Run CentOSHardening.sh

Ensure configuration works as expected.

Check for Cronjobs. (CronJobCheck.sh)

Check var/www/html for any strange file folder permissions

Run the "who" command to see any current sessions. 

Ensure that the CVE does not affect our Prestashop store. 

Check for strange prestashop accounts (using mysql):
    SELECT * FROM ps_customer;
    SELECT * FROM ps_employee;
    Or check from employee panel. 

## Update! (Optional, might be a waste of time)
sudo yum update -y
sudo yum upgrade -y

## User Accounts
It's important to figure out which user accounts are on your system.
we can run ~ cat /etc/passwd | grep /bin/bash
This will output the user accounts. 
sudo passwd (userAccountName)
Randomly generated password work best for this. User a password generator and storage system. (keepass, bitwarden, etc...)

## Ports!

This section is less relevent if utilizing the scripts:

If the formal remains the same for years to come, CentOS just needs to have 2 ports open: 80, and 443.

Enable the firewall:
sudo systemctl start firewalld
sudo systemctl enable firewalld

Set the device to drop all incoming packets by default. 
sudo firewall-cmd --set-default-zone=drop

Allow ports 80 and 443 through:
sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=drop --add-port=80/tcp
sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=drop --add-port=443/tcp

Reload the firewall:
sudo firewall-cmd --reload

Verify the config:
sudo firewall-cmd --zone=drop --list-all
# How do we harden Prestashop?
There's a few important things to remember here. [CVE 2024-34716](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-34716)

Commit message:

Created a new Hardening Script, Created MySQL Hardening Script, Updated Instructions.md

CentOS/Instructions.md, after:

# CCDC CentOS Hardening Instructions
This folder was created by Tyler Deal with the intention of passing on to future UWW Cyber/ISACA students, to help with preperation and competition.
If install is needed: https://ultahost.com/knowledge-base/install-prestashop-on-ubuntu/
Assume everything is compromised. Secure passwords, firewalls, and account/permission audits will be crucial. 

## What to do on competetion day?
Login

Git clone the repo.

-> If needed, you can run "sudo chmod +x (filename.sh)" in order to execute these scripts.

run CentPasswd.sh, Run CentHardening2.sh

Ensure configuration works as expected.

Check for Cronjobs. (CronJobCheck.sh)

Check var/www/html for any strange file folder permissions

Run the "who" command to see any current sessions. 

Ensure that the CVE does not affect our Prestashop store. 

Check for strange prestashop accounts (using mysql):
    SELECT * FROM ps_customer;
    SELECT * FROM ps_employee;
    Or check from employee panel. 

Make sure you log into the PrestaShop admin panel and change the admin password.    

Run the MySQL Hardening Script. (mysqlHardening.sh)

## Update! (Optional, might be a waste of time)
sudo yum update -y
sudo yum upgrade -y

## User Accounts
It's important to figure out which user accounts are on your system.
we can run ~ cat /etc/passwd | grep /bin/bash
This will output the user accounts. 
sudo passwd (userAccountName)
Randomly generated password work best for this. User a password generator and storage system. (keepass, bitwarden, etc...)

## Ports!

This section is less relevent if utilizing the scripts:

If the formal remains the same for years to come, CentOS just needs to have 2 ports open: 80, and 443.

Enable the firewall:
sudo systemctl start firewalld
sudo systemctl enable firewalld

Set the device to drop all incoming packets by default. 
sudo firewall-cmd --set-default-zone=drop

Allow ports 80 and 443 through:
sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=drop --add-port=80/tcp
sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=drop --add-port=443/tcp

Reload the firewall:
sudo firewall-cmd --reload

Verify the config:
sudo firewall-cmd --zone=drop --list-all
# How do we harden Prestashop?
There's a few important things to remember here. [CVE 2024-34716](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-34716)
